we begin with the aerial assault
launched by Iran against Israel the
Israeli Army says more than 200 missiles
and drones were fired from Iran most of
the missiles have been intercepted by
Israel and the US UK and Jordan have
also shot down drones Air Raid Sirens
have sounded across Israel and
explosions have been heard in Jerusalem
the Iranian revolutionary guard says the
assault is in retaliation for an attack
on its Consulate in Syria which killed
several generals it's the first time
Iran has launched a direct military
attack on Israel despite Decades of
intense
hostility while there's been widespread
International condemnation of the
Iranian attack US President Joe Biden
repeated America's Ironclad support for
Israel Secretary General Antonio gues
criticized a serious escalation by Iran
the UN Security Council has called an
emergency
meeting Germany's foreign minister
analena Bok also condemned the attack
saying it could plunge the entire region
into chaos the British prime minister
Rishi sunak called The Assault Reckless
and vowed to stand up for Israeli
security well the Israeli Army Has
Lifted its advice uh to people to go to
air raid shelters it says there's been
little damage so
far Iran launched dozens of surfac to
surface missiles towards the state of
Israel
the vast majority were intercepted
outside the borders of the state of
Israel by our air defense systems a
number of missiles fell in our territory
we know of one girl who was injured and
a strike at a base in the South with
only minor damage to the
infrastructure let's go to Jerusalem now
where DW correspondent Tanya Kramer is
standing by for Tanya good to see you
again so can you give us an update on
the attack and the situation in
Israel well as we just heard we got some
more details from the Israeli military
here saying that about 200 drones and
missiles were mostly intercepted as they
put it outside of uh Israel uh with
their strategic Partners as they put it
and also um through their air defense
system but there were some hits
identified they only told us about one
on a military base in the south of uh
Israel so some made it through uh the
defense there's also uh one uh injured
uh child uh critically injured uh we
don't know probably from shrapnel uh
what happened there now we can still
hear fighter jets in the air because the
Army had also said despite telling
people that don't have to be near
shelters but this is an ongoing event so
to speak and we can still hear in
Jerusalem the fighter jets we heard
shortly before 2 a.m. uh um you know
those uh
explosions potentially the the
interceptions that were really close by
Jerusalem but they were all over uh the
country um uh also uh so that was being
heard and now we also had in the past
half an hour so again in the north some
Aid sirant going off in Northern Israel
also on the occupied Goen that's
probably more related to the crossb
attacks we've been seeing there in the
past couple of weeks between Hezbollah
and uh Israel but also we understand
diplomatically uh on that front that US
President Joe Biden and prime minister
Benyamin
Netanyahu uh were on the phone um of
course now the question is how will
Israel retaliate to that or how will
they respond to this
attack Tanya briefly if could how are
Israelis dealing with the current
situation I think everybody here is
aware that this is a very dangerous
situation it's an unprecedented
situation uh the first time that we see
such an escalation directly uh from Iran
there was always talk about that this
could happen but again uh you know now
it it has become reality and the
question now that everybody here is of
course asking uh is where is this going
from here um there's already a war uh
between Israel and Hamas in Gaza uh we
have the tensions and crossb attacks in
the North of Israel with Southern with
Hezbollah and Southern Lebanon uh also
attacks from the houthis and from from
Yemen and the past week so where is this
going can this be contained and Israel
had already said if there's a direct
attack from Israel from Iran on Israel
then they would
retaliate thanks Tanya t Kramer in
Jerusalem well DW correspondent Muhammad
sha is in the Lebanese Capital Beirut he
told us more about the reaction in
Lebanon to Iran launching an attack
against
Israel well I just received uh reports
on what appears to be uh drones and
missiles over uh lebanon's coast and
cities this uh needs further
verification but Lebanon actually
announced that it has closed its uh
airspace temporarily due to the
escalation uh in uh in the region on the
front on the southern front uh with
Israel and this front has been active uh
since October 8th not in an unusual way
over the past two days I would say but
we just received reports that crossb
shelling between uh hasbullah and the
Israeli Army has intensified in the last
couple of hours the Iranian back
militant group announced that it
targeted air defense bases in the Golan
uh Heights meaning that this
started simultaneously with the uh um
attack that Iran launched against Israel
this night Israel also is using
extensive uh uh fire force to strike
positions inside uh Southern Lebanon all
right is that then a further escalation
of the situation um um there in that
region
I mean hasah has already been involved
in in uh uh this conflict since uh
October 8 it's been trading um fire with
Israel um since Hamas launched the
precedented attack on Israel uh on
October 7 the party is a key member as
as you may know of the so-called
resistance access along the hois in
Yemen the popular mobilization in Iraq
and Hamas in they all receive fund and
and logistic support from Iran now hb's
leader repeatedly said that it does not
want further escalation uh uh with
Israel and that the the the combat that
it's engaging with Israel on this front
is only in support uh to Gaza as as uh
he says but the party is U engaging in
combat with Israeli Army on a on a daily
uh basis uh so far now are they willing
to escalate the situation further this
question U is remain remains unanswered
uh but we will have to wait and see how
Israel responds to uh the unprecedented
attack by Iran tonight also Muhammad
briefly if you could how are the general
population there in Lebanon uh dealing
with uh what What's Happening uh
tonight well it definitely disrupted uh
the life of of the Lebanese um
definitely there's sense of fear and
anxiety all over the country be's nights
are usually wild and and busy it hasn't
been the case last night and uh uh
tonight it's significantly uh calmer
since uh yesterday as everyone was
anticipating this uh attack a couple of
hours ago people have been rushing to
petrol stations to fill their uh car
tanks i' I've I've seen the the the cues
on petrol uh station and this is out of
fear of possible escalation in the
coming uh few days everyone is watching
the situation very carefully in
Lebanon thanks Muhammad Muhammad sha in
Beirut benam Ben tblu is a senior fellow
at the foundation for the defense of
democracies in Washington DC he told me
the attack by Iran is
unprecedented yeah it's pleasure to be
with you uh unprecedented and historic
you know for almost four decades the
Islamic Republic of Iran had been
fighting a shadow war with the Jewish
state you know they have been chanting
for over four decades death to Israel
they put their money where their mouth
is but now it really is indeed coming
out of the shadows two quick reasons why
it's unprecedented number one the
Islamic Republic has never fired
projectiles like uh ballistic missiles
for example from its territory publicly
against Israeli territory number two in
the public ballistic missile operations
that the regime has been engaging in at
least 11 or 12 since 2017 for example it
has never struck a defended Target for
example all the places Iran did strike
with ballistic missiles Iraq Syria
Pakistan were undefended targets against
air and missile defenses so Israel in
fact is one of the countries with the
most advanced layered air and missile
defenses making an exceptionally hard
target for these missiles uh which begs
the question of what were the Iranians
hoping to achieve was this more of a
test run was this an attempt to layer
drones and ballistic missiles lots of
oper questions here and the biggest one
is indeed how will Israel respond
correct how will Israel respond but tell
me this what did you make of the type of
attack it's given Israel plenty of time
to prepare
right in some way you know the Iranians
for a little over a week and a half had
been publicly telegraphing that there
would be an operation and the first
phase of the military operation that
commenced was with lower and slower
flying drones some had read this as an
attempt to uh give the Israelis time to
repair but I actually think that would
not be the case the firing of drones
first and marrying it with ballistic
missiles later is because the fight time
for some of those ballistic missiles can
be as short as 8 to 12 minutes to
Traverse over about 1,600 kilometers uh
for the drones to avoid existing air and
missile defenses and hug the terrain
they fly over it indeed might take
several hours so the pre-firing and the
publication
of the Drone strike I don't think was an
attempt to prepare Israel to make the
strike less successful I think it was an
attempt to pair it together with a
higher and flaster flying missile all
right what's being said in
Iran very interestingly you've had lots
of pro- regime media semiofficial media
media related to the irgc carrying in
essence the full copy paste of the
Islamic revolutionary guard Corps press
statement uh essentially saying that yes
indeed this was a public operation they
are claiming success they are claiming
military targets were struck so there is
a fair amount of bragado doio in the
Iranian press leading one to believe
that this this operation as risky and
bold H and you know game-changing as it
was uh also was intended to Signal
resolve to a domestic audience as much
as it was looking to Signal resolve to a
foreign
audience are we seeing a change in
Iran's approach to the decades long
hostilities with Israel
slowly we are seeing an approach to how
the Islamic Republic of Iran adjudicates
that hostility with Israel uh some I
think uh today have been looking at the
missile strikes and the kind of
embracing of the over posture with
Israel as Iran moving full force uh Out
of the Shadows I don't think it's full
force out of the Shadows it is marrying
the existing asymmetric threat that the
regime poses and slowly layering on
elements of this conventional threat
architecture the regime is trying to
have uh the Best of Both Worlds here and
that's why I think even though the
Israelis were very successful at
intercepting the vast majority of these
projectiles uh the regime is not done
with uh you know marrying these threats
up together and trying to dangle the
capability to respond to Israel as a
sort of democles now we're running out
of time but uh briefly if you could H
what do you expect from Iran's proxies
in the
region uh already there are allegations
that the Shia militias in irq had
attempted to fire land attack cruise
missiles at Israel that's reported but
not confirmed that Hezbollah had slowly
uh began to Also earlier in the day fire
some Rockets over the Border uh I expect
them in case there is an Israeli overt
military response to begin to feel fill
the Gap and the question is if America
does get more involved directly I think
those sh militias would move to begin
targeting American assets Ben I'm Ben
tblu a senior fellow from the foundation
for defense of democracy democracies in
Washington Washton DC thank you for
being on DW news